.. _whatsnew_01120:


v0.11.2 (December 16, 2024)
---------------------------

Deprecations
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Deprecate terms ``dni_clearsky`` and ``clearsky_dni``, replace with ``dni_clear`` and ``ghi_clear``.
  Affected functions are :py:func:`~pvlib.irradiance.dirindex`, :py:func:`~pvlib.irradiance.dni`
  and :py:func:`~pvlib.irradiance.clearsky_index`.

Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Add :py:func:`~pvlib.atmosphere.rh_from_tdew` and :py:func:`~pvlib.atmosphere.tdew_from_rh`.
  (:issue:`1744`, :pull:`2286`)
* :py:func:`~pvlib.ivtools.sdm.fit_desoto` now allows input of initial
  parameter guesses. (:issue:`1014`, :pull:`2291`)

Bug Fixes
~~~~~~~~~
* :py:meth:`~pvlib.pvsystem.PVSystem.get_irradiance` accepts float inputs.
  (:issue:`1338`, :pull:`2227`)
* Handle DST transitions that happen at midnight in :py:func:`pvlib.solarposition.hour_angle`
  (:issue:`2132` :pull:`2133`)
* Change ``dni_extra`` to a required parameter in :py:func:`pvlib.irradiance.ghi_from_poa_driesse_2023`
  (:issue:`2279` :pull:`2331`)
* :py:func:`~pvlib.spa.julian_day_dt` now accounts for the 10 day difference
  between Julian and Gregorian calendars prior to the year 1582. (:issue:`2077`, :pull:`2249`)
* Correct sign of temperature coefficient ``dEgdT`` in :py:func:`~pvlib.ivtools.sdm.fit_desoto_sandia`.
  Results may differ slightly from previous versions. (:issue:`2311`, :pull:`2322`)

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Edit docstrings for :py:func:`~pvlib.pvsystem.dc_ohms_from_percent` and
  :py:func:`~pvlib.pvsystem.dc_ohmic_losses` for clarity. (:issue:`1601`, :pull:`2229`)
* Add 'freestanding' and 'insulated' `racking_model` options for cell
  temperature calculation in :py:class:`~pvlib.pvsystem.PVSystem`,
  :py:class:`~pvlib.pvsystem.SingleAxisTrackerMount`, and
  :py:class:`~pvlib.pvsystem.FixedMount` docstrings. Various formatting edits
  for clarity. (:issue:`1942`, :pull:`2232`)
* Update :py:func:`~pvlib.irradiance.reindl` to include definitions of terms
  and a new "notes" section (:issue:`2183`, :pull:`2193`)
* Clarify the error message in :py:func:`~pvlib.clearsky.detect_clearsky` when
  windows contain fewer than three data points (:issue:`2005`, :pull:`2281`)
* Clarify mounting cases for parameters for :py:func:`~pvlib.temperature.sapm_module`,
  :py:func:`~pvlib.temperature.sapm_cell` and :py:func:`~pvlib.temperature.pvsyst_cell`.
  (:issue:`1323`, :pull:`2293`)
* Add an example to :py:func:`~pvlib.pvsystem.retrieve_sam` docstring to
  demonstrate how to retrieve a database from the SAM repo. (:pull:`2313`)
* Add a new citation style guide (:ref:`reference_style`) to the contributing
  page. (:issue:`2202`, :pull:`2226`)
* Explain how to write docstrings for new functions in :ref:`example-docstring`
  (:discuss:`2081`, :pull:`2254`)
* Add a section in the style guide for parameter naming and units best practices.
  See :ref:`documentation-units`. (:issue:`2205`, :pull:`2248`)
* Add a new :ref:`nomenclature` page, in place of the Variables and Symbols
  page, using the sphinx glossary directive. (:issue:`1421`, :pull:`2234`)
* Add the following variables to the :ref:`nomenclature` page:

  - `spectra` and `spectra_components` (:issue:`2150`, :pull:`2264`)


Testing
~~~~~~~
* Update test files to track new PVGIS 5.3 data. (:pull:`2305`)

Maintenance
~~~~~~~~~~~
* Add a decorator to deprecate renamed keyword arguments in functions,
  :py:func:`pvlib._deprecation.renamed_kwarg_warning`. (:pull:`2237`)


Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Cliff Hansen (:ghuser:`cwhanse`)
* Rajiv Daxini (:ghuser:`RDaxini`)
* Dave Pitts (:ghuser:`dgapitts`)
* Kurt Rhee (:ghuser:`kurt-rhee`)
* Mark Mikofski (:ghuser:`mikofski`)
* Roma Koulikov (:ghuser:`matsuobasho`)
* Echedey Luis (:ghuser:`echedey-ls`)
* Kevin Anderson (:ghuser:`kandersolar`)
* Scott Nelson (:ghuser:`scttnlsn`)
* Ioannis Sifnaios (:ghuser:`IoannisSifnaios`)
* Adam R. Jensen (:ghuser:`AdamRJensen`)
* Anton Driesse (:ghuser:`adriesse`)
* Will Holmgren (:ghuser:`wholmgren`)
* Umay Akkoseoglu (:ghuser:`uakkoseo`)
* Mark Campanelli (:ghuser:`markcampanelli`)
* :ghuser:`iblasi`
* Hiromasa Ihara (:ghuser:`miettal`)
* Yunho Kee (:ghuser:`yhkee0404`)
* Hamilton Kibbe (:ghuser:`hamiltonkibbe`)
* Felix Korbelius (:ghuser:`FelixKoTU`)
* Michael Deceglie (:ghuser:`mdeceglie`)
* Will Hobbs (:ghuser:`williamhobbs`)
* Todd Karin (:ghuser:`toddkarin`)
* Lucas Schneeberger (:ghuser:`lucasschn`)
