.. _whatsnew_01000:


v0.10.0 (June 30, 2023)
-----------------------


Breaking changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* After being deprecated for over a year, the :py:mod:`pvlib.forecast` module
  is now removed entirely.  (:pull:`1766`)
* The following, originally deprecated in :ref:`whatsnew_0900`, is now removed:  (:pull:`1770`)

  - The :py:class:`pvlib.tracking.SingleAxisTracker` class
  - The various model-specific :py:class:`~pvlib.pvsystem.PVSystem` inverter
    and cell temperature methods
  - Attribute "pass-through" from :py:class:`~pvlib.modelchain.ModelChain`
    to :py:class:`~pvlib.modelchain.ModelChainResult`
  - Attribute "pass-through" from :py:class:`~pvlib.pvsystem.PVSystem`
    to :py:class:`~pvlib.pvsystem.Array`
  - The ``eta_m`` parameter in :py:func:`pvlib.temperature.pvsyst_cell`

* Reorder arguments of :py:func:`pvlib.pvsystem.PVSystem.i_from_v`,
  :py:func:`pvlib.pvsystem.i_from_v`, :py:func:`pvlib.pvsystem.v_from_i`,
  :py:func:`pvlib.singlediode._lambertw_i_from_v`, and
  :py:func:`pvlib.singlediode._lambertw_v_from_i` to match
  :py:func:`pvlib.pvsystem.singlediode`.
  (:issue:`1718`, :pull:`1719`)
* Map wind direction to ``'wind_direction'`` instead of ``'wind_dir'`` in
  :py:func:`pvlib.iotools.read_srml` and
  ``pvlib.iotools.read_srml_month_from_solardat`` (:pull:`1773`)
* :func:`~pvlib.iotools.get_pvgis_tmy` and :func:`~pvlib.iotools.read_pvgis_tmy`
  now rename columns to standard pvlib names by default (``map_variables=True``)
  (:pull:`1772`)
* In :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.get_pvgis_tmy`, the ``map_variables`` keyword
  parameter now comes before the ``url`` keyword parameter. (:pull:`1795`)
* Modified the ``surface_azimuth`` parameter in :py:func:`pvlib.iotools.get_pvgis_hourly` to conform to the
  pvlib azimuth convention (counterclockwise from north). Previously 0 degrees represented south.
  (:issue:`1724`, :pull:`1739`)
* For consistency with the rest of pvlib, the ``pw`` parameters are renamed to
  ``precipitable_water`` in :py:func:`pvlib.spectrum.spectral_factor_firstsolar`.
  (:pull:`1768`)
* For consistency with the rest of pvlib, the ``tilt`` parameter is renamed
  to ``surface_tilt`` in :py:func:`pvlib.soiling.hsu`. (:issue:`1717`, :pull:`1738`)
* Several undocumented functions in :py:mod:`pvlib.iotools.midc`,
  :py:mod:`pvlib.iotools.srml`, and :py:mod:`pvlib.iotools.surfrad`
  are now private. (:issue:`1756`, :pull:`1769`)


Deprecations
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* The ``ivcurve_pnts`` parameter of :py:func:`pvlib.pvsystem.singlediode` is
  deprecated. Use :py:func:`pvlib.pvsystem.v_from_i` and
  :py:func:`pvlib.pvsystem.i_from_v` instead. (:issue:`1626`, :pull:`1743`)
* Functions for calculating spectral modifiers have been moved to :py:mod:`pvlib.spectrum`:
  :py:func:`pvlib.atmosphere.first_solar_spectral_correction` is deprecated and
  replaced by :py:func:`~pvlib.spectrum.spectral_factor_firstsolar`, and
  :py:func:`pvlib.pvsystem.sapm_spectral_loss` is deprecated and replaced by
  :py:func:`~pvlib.spectrum.spectral_factor_sapm`. (:pull:`1628`)
* Removed the ``get_ecmwf_macc`` and ``read_ecmwf_macc`` iotools functions as the
  MACC dataset has been `removed by ECMWF <https://confluence.ecmwf.int/display/DAC/Decommissioning+of+ECMWF+Public+Datasets+Service>`_
  (data period 2003-2012). Instead, ECMWF recommends to use CAMS global
  reanalysis (EAC4) from the Atmosphere Data Store (ADS). See also :py:func:`pvlib.iotools.get_cams`.
  (:issue:`1691`, :pull:`1654`)
* The ``recolumn`` parameter in :py:func:`pvlib.iotools.read_tmy3`, which maps
  TMY3 column names to nonstandard alternatives, is now deprecated.
  We encourage using ``map_variables`` (which produces standard pvlib names) instead.
  (:issue:`1517`, :pull:`1623`)
* ``pvlib.iotools.read_srml_month_from_solardat`` is deprecated and replaced by
  :py:func:`pvlib.iotools.get_srml`. (:pull:`1779`)


Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Added two new irradiance decomposition models: :py:func:`pvlib.irradiance.orgill_hollands` (:pull:`1730`)
  and :py:func:`pvlib.irradiance.louche` (:pull:`1705`).
* The return values of :py:func:`pvlib.pvsystem.calcparams_desoto`,
  :py:func:`pvlib.pvsystem.calcparams_cec`, and
  :py:func:`pvlib.pvsystem.calcparams_pvsyst` are all numeric types and have
  the same Python type as the ``effective_irradiance`` and ``temp_cell`` parameters. (:issue:`1626`, :pull:`1700`)
* Added ``map_variables`` parameter to :py:func:`pvlib.iotools.read_tmy3` (:issue:`1517`, :pull:`1623`),
  :py:func:`pvlib.iotools.read_srml`, and ``pvlib.iotools.read_srml_month_from_solardat`` (:pull:`1773`).
* Added :func:`pvlib.iotools.get_srml` that is similar to
  ``pvlib.iotools.read_srml_month_from_solardat`` but is able to fetch multiple months
  of data using the ``start`` and ``end`` parameters.
  (:pull:`1779`)
* Allow passing keyword arguments to :py:func:`scipy:scipy.optimize.brentq` and
  :py:func:`scipy:scipy.optimize.newton` solvers in
  :py:func:`~pvlib.singlediode.bishop88_mpp`,
  :py:func:`~pvlib.singlediode.bishop88_i_from_v` and
  :py:func:`~pvlib.singlediode.bishop88_v_from_i`. Among others,
  tolerance and number of iterations can be set.
  (:issue:`1249`, :pull:`1764`)
* Improved ``ModelChainResult.__repr__`` (:pull:`1236`)
* Exposes several functions useful for bifacial and shading calculations (:pull:`1666`):

  * :py:func:`pvlib.bifacial.utils.vf_row_sky_2d`
  * :py:func:`pvlib.bifacial.utils.vf_row_sky_2d_integ`
  * :py:func:`pvlib.bifacial.utils.vf_row_ground_2d`
  * :py:func:`pvlib.bifacial.utils.vf_row_ground_2d_integ`
  * :py:func:`pvlib.bifacial.utils.vf_ground_sky_2d`
  * :py:func:`pvlib.bifacial.utils.vf_ground_sky_2d_integ`
  * :py:func:`pvlib.shading.ground_angle`

* Added a function :py:func:`pvlib.spectrum.spectral_factor_caballero`
  to estimate spectral mismatch modifiers from atmospheric conditions. (:pull:`1296`)
* Add optional ``encoding`` parameter to :py:func:`pvlib.iotools.read_tmy3`. (:issue:`1732`, :pull:`1737`)
* Added function to retrieve horizon data from PVGIS 
  :py:func:`pvlib.iotools.get_pvgis_horizon`. (:issue:`1290`, :pull:`1395`)
* Update the URL used in the :py:func:`pvlib.iotools.get_cams` function. The new URL supports load-balancing
  and redirects to the fastest server. (:issue:`1688`, :pull:`1740`)
* :py:func:`pvlib.iotools.get_psm3` now has a ``url`` parameter to give the user
  the option of controlling what NSRDB endpoint is used. (:pull:`1736`)
* :py:func:`pvlib.iotools.get_psm3` now uses the new NSRDB 3.2.2 endpoint for
  hourly and half-hourly single-year datasets. (:issue:`1591`, :pull:`1736`)
* The default solar position algorithm (NREL SPA) is now 50-100% faster. (:pull:`1748`)
* Added functions to retrieve daily precipitation, temperature, and snowfall data
  from the NOAA's ACIS service: :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.get_acis_prism`,
  :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.get_acis_nrcc`, :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.get_acis_mpe`,
  :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.get_acis_station_data`, and
  :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.get_acis_available_stations`. (:issue:`1293`, :pull:`1767`)


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~
* Prevent small negative values of ``v_oc`` in :py:func:`pvlib.singlediode._lambertw`
  which result from accumulated roundoff error. (:issue:`1780`, :issue:`1673`, :pull:`1782`)
* Corrects an error in view factor calculations which are part of
  :py:func:`pvlib.bifacial.infinite_sheds.get_irradiance`. The error
  affects rear surface irradiance by a few W/m2. As part of the correction,
  average view factors are now computed by exact formulas rather than by
  numerical integration. (:issue:`1665`, :pull:`1666`)
* ``data`` can no longer be left unspecified in
  :py:meth:`pvlib.modelchain.ModelChain.run_model_from_effective_irradiance`. (:issue:`1713`, :pull:`1720`)
* ``d2mutau`` and ``NsVbi`` are now correctly passed through :py:func:`pvlib.pvsystem.max_power_point`
  instead of being hardcoded. (:pull:`1733`)
* :py:func:`pvlib.iam.physical` no longer returns NaN when ``n=1`` and ``aoi>90``.
  This bug was introduced in v0.9.5.  (:issue:`1706`, :pull:`1707`)


Testing
~~~~~~~
* Migrated to mamba-org/setup-micromamba. (:issue:`1746`, :pull:`1758`)


Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Updated the description of the interval parameter in
  :py:func:`pvlib.iotools.get_psm3`. (:issue:`1702`, :pull:`1712`)
* Fixed outdated nbviewer links. (:issue:`1721`, :pull:`1726`)


Requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* With the removal of :py:mod:`pvlib.forecast`, the following packages are no
  longer listed as (optional) dependencies: ``netCDF4``, ``cftime``, and ``siphon``.
  (:pull:`1766`)


Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Taos Transue (:ghuser:`reepoi`)
* Nicholas Riedel-Lyngskær (:ghuser:`nicorie`)
* Adam R. Jensen (:ghuser:`AdamRJensen`)
* Echedey Luis (:ghuser:`echedey-ls`)
* Cliff Hansen (:ghuser:`cwhanse`)
* Cédric Leroy (:ghuser:`cedricleroy`)
* Jean-Baptiste Pasquier (:ghuser:`pasquierjb`)
* Mark Mikofski (:ghuser:`mikofski`)
* Lakshya Garg (:ghuser:`Lakshyadevelops`)
* Ben Pierce (:ghuser:`bgpierc`)
* Joseph Palakapilly (:ghuser:`JPalakapillyKWH`)
* Anton Driesse (:ghuser:`adriesse`)
* Will Holmgren (:ghuser:`wholmgren`)
* Karel De Brabandere (:ghuser:`kdebrab`)
* Josh Stein (:ghuser:`jsstein`)
* Kevin Anderson (:ghuser:`kandersolar`)
* Siddharth Kaul (:ghuser:`k10blogger`)
* Kshitiz Gupta (:ghuser:`kshitiz305`)
* Stefan de Lange (:ghuser:`langestefan`)
* Jose Antonio Caballero (:ghuser:`Jacc0027`)
* Andy Lam (:ghuser:`andylam598`)
* :ghuser:`ooprathamm`
* Devon Watt (:ghuser:`d-watt`)
* Todd Karin (:ghuser:`toddkarin`)
* Corey Pullium (:ghuser:`cpullium`)
