.. _whatsnew_01130:


v0.11.3 (Anticipated March, 2025)
---------------------------------

Breaking Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* The pvlib.location.Location.pytz attribute is now read only. The
  pytz attribute is now set internally to be consistent with the
  pvlib.location.Location.tz attribute. (:issue:`2340`, :pull:`2341`)
* Users must now provide ModelChain.spectral_model, or the 'no_loss' spectral
  model is assumed. pvlib.modelchain.ModelChain no longer attempts to infer
  the spectral model from PVSystem attributes. (:issue:`2017`, :pull:`2253`)
* Remove deprecated :py:func:`!pvlib.pvsystem.sapm_spectral_loss`.
  (:issue:`2243`, :pull:`2244`)
* :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.read_tmy3` now defaults to ``map_variables=True``.
  Additionally, the deprecated ``recolumn`` parameter is now removed. (:issue:`2324`, :pull:`2408`)
* Remove :py:func:`!pvlib.atmosphere.first_solar_spectral_correction`, deprecated in v0.10.0.
  Use :py:func:`~pvlib.spectrum.spectral_factor_firstsolar` instead. (:issue:`2130`, :pull:`2131`)
* Remove deprecated :py:func:`!pvlib.spectrum.get_am15g` function; use
  :py:func:`~pvlib.spectrum.get_reference_spectra` instead.  (:pull:`2409`)
* Remove ``label`` parameter in :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.get_cams` resulting in the timestamps
  referring to the start of the period for all options of ``time_step``.

Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~
* Add a check to :py:func:`~pvlib.snow.fully_covered_nrel` and
  :py:func:`~pvlib.snow.coverage_nrel`. The check uses snow depth on the ground
  to improve modeling for systems with shallow tilt angles. The check
  adds a new, optional parameter snow_depth. (:issue:`1171`, :pull:`2292`)
* Fix a bug in :py:func:`pvlib.bifacial.get_irradiance_poa` which may have yielded non-zero
  ground irradiance when the sun was below the horizon. (:issue:`2245`, :pull:`2359`)
* Fix a bug where :py:func:`pvlib.transformer.simple_efficiency` could only be imported
  using the `from pvlib.transformer` syntax (:pull:`2388`)
* :py:class:`~pvlib.modelchain.ModelChain` now requires only a minimal set of
  parameters to run the SAPM electrical model. (:issue:`2369`, :pull:`2393`)
* Correct keys for First Solar modules in `~pvlib.spectrum.spectral_factor_pvspec` (:issue:`2398`, :pull:`2400`)
* Ensure proper tz and pytz types in pvlib.location.Location. To ensure that
  the time zone in pvlib.location.Location remains internally consistent
  if/when the time zone is updated, the tz attribute is now the single source
  of time-zone truth, is the single time-zone setter interface, and its getter 
  returns an IANA string. (:issue:`2340`, :pull:`2341`)
* :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.get_pvgis_tmy` with ``outputformat='csv'`` now
  works with the updated data format returned by PVGIS. (:issue:`2344`, :pull:`2395`)

Deprecations
~~~~~~~~~~~~


Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* :py:func:`~pvlib.irradiance.gti_dirint` now raises an informative message
  when input data don't include values with AOI<90 (:issue:`1342`, :pull:`2347`)
* Reduced space requirements by excluding tests and test files from wheel.
  Zipped wheel is now 66% of the previous size, and installed size is 50% of
  the previous size.
  (:issue:`2271`, :pull:`2277`)

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Fix Procedural and Object Oriented simulation examples having slightly different results, in :ref:`introtutorial`. (:issue:`2366`, :pull:`2367`)
* Restructure the user guide with subsections (:issue:`2302`, :pull:`2310`)
* Add references for :py:func:`pvlib.snow.loss_townsend`. (:issue:`2383`, :pull:`2384`)
* Add :term:`ghi_clear` to the :ref:`nomenclature` page (:issue:`2272`, :pull:`2397`)
* Add output variable naming clarifaction to :py:func:`pvlib.pvsystem.calcparams_desoto` and :py:func:`pvlib.pvsystem.calcparams_pvsyst` (:issue:`716`, :pull:`2405`)

Testing
~~~~~~~
* Moved tests folder to `/tests` and data exclusively used for testing to `/tests/data`.
  (:issue:`2271`, :pull:`2277`)
* Added Python 3.13 to test suite. (:pull:`2258`)
* Add tests for all input types for the pvlib.location.Location.tz attribute.
  (:issue:`2340`, :pull:`2341`)
* Add tests for time-conversion functions in pvlib.tools. (:issue:`2340`, :pull:`2341`)


Requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~


Maintenance
~~~~~~~~~~~
* Fix ReadTheDocs builds by upgrading `readthedocs.yml` configuration
  (:issue:`2357`, :pull:`2358`)
* asv 0.4.2 upgraded to asv 0.6.4 to fix CI failure due to pinned older conda.
  (:pull:`2352`)


Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Rajiv Daxini (:ghuser:`RDaxini`)
* Cliff Hansen (:ghuser:`cwhanse`)
* Jason Lun Leung (:ghuser:`jason-rpkt`)
* Manoj K S (:ghuser:`manojks1999`)
* Kurt Rhee (:ghuser:`kurt-rhee`)
* Ayush jariyal (:ghuser:`ayushjariyal`)
* Kevin Anderson (:ghuser:`kandersolar`)
* Echedey Luis (:ghuser:`echedey-ls`)
* Mark Campanelli (:ghuser:`markcampanelli`)
* Max Jackson (:ghuser:`MaxJackson`)
