.. _whatsnew_01030:


v0.10.3 (December 20, 2023)
---------------------------


Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Added the continuous Perez-Driesse transposition model.
  :py:func:`pvlib.irradiance.perez_driesse` (:issue:`1841`, :pull:`1876`)
* Added a reverse transposition algorithm using the Perez-Driesse model.
  :py:func:`pvlib.irradiance.ghi_from_poa_driesse_2023`
  (:issue:`1901`, :pull:`1907`)
* :py:func:`pvlib.bifacial.infinite_sheds.get_irradiance` and
  :py:func:`pvlib.bifacial.infinite_sheds.get_irradiance_poa` now include
  shaded fraction in returned variables. (:pull:`1871`)
* Added :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.get_solcast_tmy`, :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.get_solcast_historic`,
  :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.get_solcast_forecast` and :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.get_solcast_live` to
  read data from the Solcast API. (:issue:`1313`, :pull:`1875`)
* Added :py:func:`~pvlib.iam.convert` and :py:func:`~pvlib.iam.fit` that
  convert between IAM models, and that fit an IAM model to data. (:issue:`1824`, :pull:`1827`)
* Add :py:func:`pvlib.iotools.read_solaranywhere` and
  :py:func:`pvlib.iotools.get_solaranywhere` for reading and retrieving
  SolarAnywhere solar irradiance data. (:pull:`1497`, :discuss:`1310`)

Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~
* Fixed CAMS error message handler in
  :py:func:`pvlib.iotools.get_cams`. (:issue:`1799`, :pull:`1905`)
* Fix mapping of the dew point column to ``temp_dew`` when ``map_variables``
  is True in :py:func:`pvlib.iotools.get_psm3`. (:pull:`1920`)
* Fix :py:class:`pvlib.modelchain.ModelChain` to use attribute `clearsky_model`.
  (:pull:`1924`)

Testing
~~~~~~~
* Replace use of deprecated ``pkg_resources``. (:issue:`1881`, :pull:`1882`)
* Added Python 3.12 to test suite. (:pull:`1886`)

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Create :ref:`weatherdata` User's Guide page. (:pull:`1754`)
* Fixed a plotting issue in the IV curve gallery example. (:pull:`1895`)
* Added two examples to demonstrate reverse transposition. (:pull:`1907`)
* Fixed :py:func:`~pvlib.clearsky.detect_clearsky` example in :ref:`clearsky`. (:issue:`1914`)
* Clarified purpose of `ModelChain.clearsky_model`. (:pull:`1924`)


Requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Minimum version of scipy advanced from 1.4.0 to 1.5.0. (:issue:`1918`, :pull:`1919`)


Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Arjan Keeman (:ghuser:`akeeman`)
* Miguel Sánchez de León Peque (:ghuser:`Peque`)
* Will Hobbs (:ghuser:`williamhobbs`)
* Anton Driesse (:ghuser:`adriesse`)
* Abigail Jones (:ghuser:`ajonesr`)
* Cliff Hansen (:ghuser:`cwhanse`)
* Gilles Fischer (:ghuser:`GillesFischerV`)
* Adam R. Jensen (:ghuser:`AdamRJensen`)
* :ghuser:`matsuobasho`
* Harry Jack (:ghuser:`harry-solcast`)
* Kevin Anderson (:ghuser:`kandersolar`)
* Lorenzo Riches (:ghuser:`lorenzo-solcast`)
* Hugh Cutcher (:ghuser:`hugh-solcast`)
* Echedey Luis (:ghuser:`echedey-ls`)
* Will Holmgren (:ghuser:`wholmgren`)
* Miroslav Šedivý (:ghuser:`eumiro`)
* Mark Mikofski (:ghuser:`mikofski`)
* Phoebe Pearce (:ghuser:`phoebe-p`)
* Eva-Maria Grommes (:ghuser:`EwaGomez`)
