.. _whatsnew_01040:


v0.10.4 (March 19, 2024)
------------------------


Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Added the Huld PV model used by PVGIS (:pull:`1940`)
* Add :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.get_solargis` for retrieving Solargis
  irradiance data. (:pull:`1969`)
* Added function :py:func:`pvlib.shading.projected_solar_zenith_angle`,
  a common calculation in shading and tracking. (:issue:`1734`, :pull:`1904`)
* Added :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.get_solrad` for fetching irradiance data from
  the SOLRAD ground station network. (:pull:`1967`)
* Added metadata parsing to :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.read_solrad` to follow the standard iotools
  convention of returning a tuple of (data, meta). Previously the function only returned a dataframe. (:pull:`1968`)


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~
* Fixed an error in solar position calculations when using
  :py:class:`pandas.DatetimeIndex` with ``unit`` other than ``'ns'`` (:issue:`1932`).
  The following functions were affected:

  - :py:class:`~pvlib.modelchain.ModelChain` and :py:func:`~pvlib.solarposition.get_solarposition` with the ``nrel_numpy`` and ``nrel_numba`` methods
  - :py:func:`~pvlib.solarposition.spa_python`
  - :py:func:`~pvlib.solarposition.sun_rise_set_transit_spa`
  - :py:func:`~pvlib.solarposition.nrel_earthsun_distance`
  - :py:func:`~pvlib.solarposition.hour_angle`
  - :py:func:`~pvlib.solarposition.sun_rise_set_transit_geometric`

* :py:class:`~pvlib.modelchain.ModelChain` now raises a more useful error when
  ``temperature_model_parameters`` are specified on the passed ``system`` instead of on its ``arrays``. (:issue:`1759`).
* :py:func:`pvlib.irradiance.ghi_from_poa_driesse_2023` now correctly makes use
  of the ``xtol`` argument. Previously, it was ignored. (:issue:`1970`, :pull:`1971`)
* Fixed incorrect unit conversion of precipitable water used for the Solcast iotools functions. (:pull:`1969`)
* :py:class:`~pvlib.modelchain.ModelChain.infer_temperature_model` now raises a more useful error when
  the temperature model cannot be inferred (:issue:`1946`)
* The default URL for retrieving irradiance data from the SRML network was updated in
  :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.get_srml` (:pull:`1957`, :issue:`1922`)


Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Improved references and description for :py:func:`~pvlib.irradiance.get_ground_diffuse`. (:pull:`1883`, :pull:`1953`)
* Fixed broken URLs in various places. (:pull:`1957`, :pull:`1960`)
* Added a gallery example with a model for OEDI system 9068. (:pull:`1985`)


Requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Minimum version of pandas advanced from 0.25.0 to 1.3.0. (:pull:`1969`)
* Minimum version of numpy advanced from 1.16.0 to 1.17.3. (:pull:`1969`)


Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Patrick Sheehan (:ghuser:`patricksheehan`)
* Echedey Luis (:ghuser:`echedey-ls`)
* Kevin Anderson (:ghuser:`kandersolar`)
* Cliff Hansen (:ghuser:`cwhanse`)
* Roma Koulikov (:ghuser:`matsuobasho`)
* Adam R. Jensen (:ghuser:`AdamRJensen`)
* Peter Dudfield (:ghuser:`peterdudfield`)
* Anton Driesse (:ghuser:`adriesse`)
* Mark Mikofski (:ghuser:`mikofski`)
* Will Holmgren (:ghuser:`wholmgren`)
* Jules Chéron (:ghuser:`jules-ch`)
