.. _whatsnew_0_15_2:


v0.15.2 (June 16, 2026)
-----------------------


Deprecations
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Deprecate :py:attr:`pvlib.location.Location.pytz`.
  Use :py:attr:`~pvlib.location.Location.tz` instead. (:issue:`2343`, :pull:`2757`)
* Rename :py:func:`!pvlib.irradiance.ghi_from_poa_driesse_2023` to
  :py:func:`~pvlib.irradiance.ghi_from_poa_driesse_2024`. The year now reflects
  the publication date. The old name will be removed in v0.17.0.
  (:issue:`2774`, :pull:`2777`)


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~
* Fix :py:func:`pvlib.temperature.fuentes` truncating the output if `poa_global` input was
  data type integer. Users can expect modeled cell temperature values to
  increase slightly. (:issue:`2608`, :pull:`2745`)
* Fix a regression in :py:func:`pvlib.tracking.calc_surface_orientation`
  introduced in v0.15.1 (:pull:`2702`) that caused a broadcasting
  ``ValueError`` when ``tracker_theta`` was a 2-D (or higher rank) array.
  (:issue:`2747`, :pull:`2749`)
* Document that timestamps returned by :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.get_era5`
  represent the end of the averaging interval, consistent with ERA5
  conventions. (:issue:`2772`, :pull:`2773`)
* Fix header parsing in :py:func:`pvlib.iotools.read_nsrdb_psm4` with quoted
  commas in column names. This allows spectral-on-demand files to be read. (:issue:`2736`, :pull:`2771`)
* Update :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.get_meteonorm_tmy` to comply
  with the updated Meteonorm API.  As part of this, the ``data_version``
  parameter now has no effect and will be removed in the future. (:pull:`2781`)


Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Add the ``front_side_fraction`` parameter to
  :py:func:`pvlib.snow.loss_townsend` to support Townsend snow-loss
  workflows for bifacial systems. (:issue:`2755`, :pull:`2756`)
* Add the following parameters to :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.get_nasa_power`
  when ``map_variables=True``: ``temp_dew``, ``precipitable_water``,
  ``relative_humidity``, ``ghi_extra``, ``dhi_clear``, ``longwave_down``,
  and ``albedo``. (:issue:`2731`, :pull:`2753`, :pull:`2762`)


Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Clarify that :py:func:`pvlib.soiling.hsu` has an implicit minimum
  soiling ratio of approximately 0.6563 due to the mathematical form
  of the model. (:issue:`2534`, :pull:`2743`)
* Clarify how Linke turbidity values can be provided to
  :py:func:`pvlib.clearsky.ineichen` via
  :py:func:`pvlib.clearsky.lookup_linke_turbidity`. (:issue:`2598`, :pull:`2746`)
* Clarifies how Linke turbidity values can be provided to
 :py:func:`pvlib.clearsky.ineichen` via
 :py:func:`pvlib.clearsky.lookup_linke_turbidity` (:issue:`2598`, :pull:`2746`)
* Clarifies the variable naming, comments and references in
  :py:func:`pvlib.atmosphere.rh_from_tdew` (and the related comments in
  :py:func:`pvlib.atmosphere.tdew_from_rh`) related to the actual
  and saturation vapor pressures. Function output is
  unchanged. (:issue:`2734`, :pull:`2782`)


Testing
~~~~~~~
* Add test coverage for :py:func:`pvlib.irradiance.dirint` with
  ``np.array`` and ``pd.Series`` inputs. (:issue:`2751`, :pull:`2752`)


Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* :ghuser:`Omesh37`
* :ghuser:`gaoflow`
* Cliff Hansen (:ghuser:`cwhanse`)
* :ghuser:`shethkajal7`
* Arthur Onno (:ghuser:`ArthurOnnoTerabase`)
* Adam R. Jensen (:ghuser:`AdamRJensen`)
* :ghuser:`JoLo90`
* Karl Hill (:ghuser:`karlhillx`)
* Rajiv Daxini (:ghuser:`RDaxini`)
* Vincent Filter (:ghuser:`vfilter`)
* Klaus Jäger (:ghuser:`solartube`)
* Carolina Crespo (:ghuser:`cbcrespo`)
* Ioannis Sifnaios (:ghuser:`IoannisSifnaios`)
* Anton Driesse (:ghuser:`adriesse`)
* Mark Mikofski (:ghuser:`mikofski`)
* Rodrigo Amaro e Silva (:ghuser:`ramaroesilva`)
* Will Hobbs (:ghuser:`williamhobbs`)
* Echedey Luis (:ghuser:`echedey-ls`)
* Cliff Hansen (:ghuser:`cwhanse`)
* Will Holmgren (:ghuser:`wholmgren`)
* Kevin Anderson (:ghuser:`kandersolar`)
