.. _whatsnew_01100:


v0.11.0 (June 21, 2024)
-----------------------


Breaking changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* The deprecated ``pvlib.modelchain.basic_chain`` has now been removed. (:pull:`1862`)
* Remove the ``poa_horizontal_ratio`` function and all of its references. (:issue:`1697`, :pull:`2021`)
* Updated :py:const:`~pvlib.iotools.MIDC_VARIABLE_MAP` to reflect
  changes in instrumentation. (:pull:`2006`)
* ``pvlib.iotools.read_srml_month_from_solardat`` was deprecated in v0.10.0 and has
  now been completely removed. The function is replaced by :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.get_srml()`.
  (:pull:`1779`, :pull:`1989`)
* The ``leap_day`` parameter in :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.get_psm3`
  now defaults to True instead of False. (:issue:`1481`, :pull:`1991`)
* :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.get_psm3`, :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.read_psm3`, and
  :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.parse_psm3` all now have ``map_variables=True`` by
  default. (:issue:`1425`, :pull:`2094`)
* The deprecated ``ivcurve_pnts`` parameter of :py:func:`pvlib.pvsystem.singlediode`
  is removed. Use :py:func:`pvlib.pvsystem.v_from_i` and
  :py:func:`pvlib.pvsystem.i_from_v` instead. (:pull:`2101`)


Deprecations
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* The ``pvlib.irradiance.SURFACE_ALBEDOS`` dictionary has been moved to
  :py:const:`pvlib.albedo.SURFACE_ALBEDOS`. (:pull:`2095`)
* Function :py:func:`pvlib.spectrum.get_am15g` has been deprecated in favor
  of the new function :py:func:`pvlib.spectrum.get_reference_spectra`. Use
  ``pvlib.spectrum.get_reference_spectra(standard="ASTM G173-03")["global"]``
  instead. (:pull:`2039`)


Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Add a simple transformer efficiency model :py:func:`pvlib.transformer.simple_efficiency`.
  (:issue:`1269`, :pull:`2053`)
* Add function :py:func:`pvlib.shading.shaded_fraction1d`, to calculate the
  shade perpendicular to ``axis_azimuth``. The function is applicable to both
  fixed-tilt and one-axis tracking systems.
  (:issue:`1689`, :pull:`1725`, :pull:`1962`)
* Add function :py:func:`pvlib.albedo.inland_water_dvoracek`, to calculate the
  albedo for inland water bodies.
  (:pull:`2079`)
* Added conversion functions from spectral response ([A/W]) to quantum
  efficiency ([unitless]) and vice versa. The conversion functions are
  :py:func:`pvlib.spectrum.sr_to_qe` and :py:func:`pvlib.spectrum.qe_to_sr`
  respectively. (:issue:`2040`, :pull:`2041`)
* Add function :py:func:`pvlib.spectrum.spectral_factor_pvspec`, which
  calculates the spectral mismatch factor as a function of absolute airmass and
  clearsky index using the PVSPEC model.
  (:issue:`1950`, :issue:`2065`, :pull:`2072`)
* Add function :py:func:`pvlib.spectrum.spectral_factor_jrc`, which calculates
  the spectral mismatch factor as a function of airmass and clearsky
  index using the JRC model.
  (:issue:`1950`, :issue:`2065`, :issue:`2087`, :pull:`2088`)
* Added extraterrestrial and direct spectra of the ASTM G173-03 standard with
  the new function :py:func:`pvlib.spectrum.get_reference_spectra`.
  (:issue:`1963`, :pull:`2039`)
* Added function :py:func:`pvlib.shading.direct_martinez` to calculate
  shading losses by taking into account the amount of bypass diodes of a module.
  (:issue:`2063`, :pull:`2070`)
* Add function :py:func:`pvlib.irradiance.diffuse_par_spitters` to calculate the
  diffuse fraction of Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) from the
  global diffuse fraction and the solar zenith.
  (:issue:`2047`, :pull:`2048`)
* Default altitude in :py:class:`pvlib.location.Location`
  now comes from :py:func:`~pvlib.location.lookup_altitude` (:issue:`1516`, :pull:`1850`)


Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Configure mathjax to left-align and indent equations in docstrings. (:pull:`2056`)


Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Cliff Hansen (:ghuser:`cwhanse`)
* Kurt Rhee (:ghuser:`kurt-rhee`)
* Mark Mikofski (:ghuser:`mikofski`)
* Siddharth Kaul (:ghuser:`k10blogger`)
* Ioannis Sifnaios (:ghuser:`IoannisSifnaios`)
* Mark Campanelli (:ghuser:`markcampanelli`)
* Rajiv Daxini (:ghuser:`RDaxini`)
* Nicolas Martinez (:ghuser:`nicomt`)
* :ghuser:`PhilBrk8`
* John Obrecht (:ghuser:`jmobrecht`)
* Echedey Luis (:ghuser:`echedey-ls`)
* Adam R. Jensen (:ghuser:`AdamRJensen`)
* Anton Driesse (:ghuser:`adriesse`)
* Will Holmgren (:ghuser:`wholmgren`)
* Will Hobbs (:ghuser:`williamhobbs`)
* Kevin Anderson (:ghuser:`kandersolar`)
