.. _whatsnew_01110:


v0.11.1 (September 26, 2024)
----------------------------

Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Add new function to calculate the average photon energy,
  :py:func:`~pvlib.spectrum.average_photon_energy`.
  (:issue:`2135`, :pull:`2140`)
* Add new losses function that accounts for non-uniform irradiance on bifacial
  modules, :py:func:`~pvlib.bifacial.power_mismatch_deline`.
  (:issue:`2045`, :pull:`2046`)
* Add new parameters for min/max absolute air mass to
  :py:func:`~pvlib.spectrum.spectral_factor_firstsolar`.
  (:issue:`2086`, :pull:`2100`)
* Add ``roll_utc_offset`` and ``coerce_year`` arguments to
  :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.get_pvgis_tmy` to allow user to specify time zone,
  rotate indices of TMY to begin at midnight, and force indices to desired
  year. (:issue:`2139`, :pull:`2138`)
* Restructured the pvlib/spectrum folder by breaking up the contents of
  pvlib/spectrum/mismatch.py into pvlib/spectrum/mismatch.py,
  pvlib/spectrum/irradiance.py, and
  pvlib/spectrum/response.py. (:issue:`2125`, :pull:`2136`, :pull:`2151`)
* Added function for calculating wind speed at different heights,
  :py:func:`~pvlib.atmosphere.windspeed_powerlaw`.
  (:issue:`2118`, :pull:`2124`)
* ``delta_t`` can now be specified with an array in the SPA functions.
  The numba implementation now also allows calculation of ``delta_t``
  internally.  (:issue:`2189`, :pull:`2190`)
* The multithreaded SPA functions no longer emit a warning when calculating
  solar positions for short time series. (:pull:`2170`)
* Implemented closed-form solution for alpha in :py:func:`~pvlib.clearsky.detect_clearsky`, 
  obviating the call to scipy.optimize, which was prone to runtime errors, and minimizing
  computation. (:issue:`2171`, :issue:`2216`, :pull:`2217`).

Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~
* To prevent simulation output from differing slightly based on the time zone
  of the time stamps, models that use day of year for sun position and
  irradiance calculations now determine the day of year according to the UTC
  equivalent of the specified time stamps.  The following functions are affected:
  :py:func:`~pvlib.clearsky.lookup_linke_turbidity`,
  :py:func:`~pvlib.irradiance.get_extra_radiation`,
  :py:func:`~pvlib.irradiance.disc`,
  :py:func:`~pvlib.irradiance.dirint`,
  :py:func:`~pvlib.spectrum.spectrl2`. (:issue:`2054`, :pull:`2055`)
* :py:func:`~pvlib.solarposition.hour_angle` and
  :py:func:`~pvlib.solarposition.sun_rise_set_transit_geometric` now raise
  ``ValueError`` when given timezone-naive inputs, instead of assuming UTC.
  (:pull:`2055`)

Testing
~~~~~~~
* Updated the tests for :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.get_pvgis_tmy`
  and :py:func:`~pvlib.iotools.read_pvgis_tmy` as the default
  API endpoint has changed from 5.1 to 5.2. (:pull:`2222`)
* Removed unused ``times`` input from ``dni_et`` fixture. (:issue:`2105`, :pull:`2156`)

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Added new gallery example pages for:
  
  - Demonstrating the application of several spectral mismatch factor models.
    (:issue:`2107`, :pull:`2114`)
  - Demonstrating the application of :py:func:`~pvlib.spectrum.average_photon_energy`.
    (:issue:`2194`, :pull:`2206`)
  - Calculating cell temperature for floating PV. (:pull:`2110`)
  - Demonstrating how to use different Perez coefficients in a ModelChain.
    (:issue:`2127`, :pull:`2148`)

* Fixed examples in :py:func:`~pvlib.shading.shaded_fraction1d`. (:pull:`2215`)
* Updated model description, added equation variable definitions, and created a 
  new "notes" section in :py:func:`~pvlib.irradiance.haydavies` and
  :py:func:`~pvlib.irradiance.klucher`. (:issue:`2183`, :pull:`2191`,
  :pull:`2192`)
* Document units with Wm⁻² instead of W/m^2 throughout ``pvlib.irradiance``. (:issue:`2205`, :pull:`2191`)
* Split the contributing page into several pages. (:issue:`2210`, :pull:`2219`)

Requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Python 3.9 or greater. (:pull:`2213`)
* Minimum numpy version increased to v1.19.3. (:pull:`2213`)

Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Echedey Luis (:ghuser:`echedey-ls`)
* Yunho Kee (:ghuser:`yhkee0404`)
* Chris Deline (:ghuser:`cdeline`)
* Ioannis Sifnaios (:ghuser:`IoannisSifnaios`)
* Leonardo Micheli (:ghuser:`lmicheli`)
* Rajiv Daxini (:ghuser:`RDaxini`)
* Mark A. Mikofski (:ghuser:`mikofski`)
* Ben Pierce (:ghuser:`bgpierc`)
* Jose Meza (:ghuser:`JoseMezaMendieta`)
* Kevin Anderson (:ghuser:`kandersolar`)
* Luiz Reis (:ghuser:`luizreiscver`)
* Carlos Cárdenas-Bravo (:ghuser:`cardenca`)
* Marcos R. Escudero (:ghuser:`marc-resc`)
* Bernat Nicolau (:ghuser:`BernatNicolau`)
* Eduardo Sarquis (:ghuser:`EduardoSarquis`)
* Adam R. Jensen (:ghuser:`AdamRJensen`)
* Andrew B Godbehere (:ghuser:`agodbehere`)
* Cliff Hansen (:ghuser:`cwhanse`)
* Anton Driesse (:ghuser:`adriesse`)
* Miguel Angel Sevillano Bendezú (:ghuser:`msevillanob`)
* Erfan (:ghuser:`Metal-Bat`)
* Will Holmgren (:ghuser:`wholmgren`)
* Kurt Rhee (:ghuser:`kurt-rhee`)
* :ghuser:`PhilBrk8`
* Mark Campanelli (:ghuser:`markcampanelli`)
