.. _whatsnew_0920:

v0.9.2 (August 19, 2022)
------------------------

Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* albedo can now be provided as a column in the `weather` DataFrame input to
  :py:meth:`pvlib.modelchain.ModelChain.run_model`. (:issue:`1387`, :pull:`1478`)
* albedo is now available as an input to :py:meth:`pvlib.pvsystem.PVSystem.get_irradiance`
  and :py:meth:`pvlib.pvsystem.Array.get_irradiance`. (:pull:`1478`)
* :py:func:`pvlib.iotools.read_surfrad` now also accepts remote files
  with https links in addition to files on the SURFRAD FTP server.
  (:pull:`1459`)
* Add :py:func:`pvlib.tracking.calc_surface_orientation` for calculating
  single-axis tracker ``surface_tilt`` and ``surface_azimuth`` from
  rotation angles. (:issue:`1471`, :pull:`1480`)
* Improve error message about uneven time intervals for
  :py:func:`~pvlib.clearsky.detect_clearsky` and :py:func:`~pvlib.temperature.prilliman`.
  (:issue:`1476`, :pull:`1490`)
* Add support for `PEP517 <https://peps.python.org/pep-0517/>`_ & `PEP518 <https://peps.python.org/pep-0518/>`_
  with setuptools build backend. (:pull:`1495`)


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~
* :py:func:`pvlib.irradiance.get_total_irradiance` and
  :py:func:`pvlib.solarposition.spa_python` now raise an error instead
  of silently ignoring unknown parameters. (:pull:`1437`)
* Fix a bug in :py:func:`pvlib.solarposition.sun_rise_set_transit_ephem`
  where passing localized timezones with large UTC offsets could return
  rise/set/transit times for the wrong day in recent versions of ``ephem``.
  (:issue:`1449`, :pull:`1448`)
* :py:func:`pvlib.iotools.read_tmy3` is now able to accept midnight
  timestamps as either 24:00 (which is the standard) as well as 00:00.
  Previously 00:00 timestamps would incorrectly be moved one day forward.
  (:pull:`1494`)
* :py:func:`pvlib.iotools.get_psm3` now raises a deprecation warning if
  the ``leap_day`` parameter is not specified in a single-year request.
  Starting in pvlib 0.11.0 ``leap_day`` will default to True instead of False.
  (:issue:`1481`, :pull:`1511`)

Testing
~~~~~~~
* Switched CI testing provider from Azure to GitHub Actions. (:pull:`1306`)
* Speed up CI setup using micromamba instead of conda. (:pull:`1493`)
* Drop python 3.6 (reached end of life Dec 2021) and add 3.10 to test matrix. (:pull:`1507`)

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Added a reference to :py:func:`pvlib.inverter.sandia_multi`. (:pull:`1479`)
* Add gallery example of simulating rearside irradiance for a fixed-tilt
  array with pvfactors. (:pull:`1470`)
* Updated reference links to CAMS Radiation. (:issue:`1515`, :pull:`1529`)

Benchmarking
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Updated version of numba in asv.conf from 0.36.1 to 0.40.0 to solve numba/numpy conflict. (:issue:`1439`, :pull:`1440`)
* Added benchmarks for the ``pvlib.scaling`` module. (:pull:`1445`)
* Added a basic CI asv check. (:issue:`1446`, :pull:`1454`)

Requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Python 3.7 or greater. (:pull:`1507`)
* Minimum pandas version increased to v0.25.0, released July 18, 2019. (:pull:`1448`)

Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Adam R. Jensen (:ghuser:`AdamRJensen`)
* Naman Priyadarshi (:ghuser:`Naman-Priyadarshi`)
* Chencheng Luo (:ghuser:`roger-lcc`)
* Prajwal Borkar (:ghuser:`PrajwalBorkar`) 
* Cliff Hansen (:ghuser:`cwhanse`)
* Kevin Anderson (:ghuser:`kanderso-nrel`)
* Cliff Hansen (:ghuser:`cwhanse`)
* Jules Chéron (:ghuser:`jules-ch`)
* Kurt Rhee (:ghuser:`kurt-rhee`)
* Will Hobbs (:ghuser:`williamhobbs`)
* Stephen Schneider (:ghuser:`sjschneider`)
* :ghuser:`Kaesekopf`
* :ghuser:`hf-kklein`
* Mark Campanelli (:ghuser:`campanelli-sunpower`)
* Anton Driesse (:ghuser:`adriesse`)
* Kristen Wagner (:ghuser:`kwagnercpr`)
* Mark Mikofski (:ghuser:`mikofski`)